docs/containerapp.md, before:

# Leveraging Azure Container Apps for database builds

- [Why use Container Apps?](#why-use-container-apps)
  - [Process Flow](massively_parallel.md#azure-container-instance-process-flow)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Container Image](#container-image)
  - [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
- [Example and How To](#example-and-how-to)

## Why use Container Apps?

If you have a fleet of databases to update, it could take a very long time to run your build on a single machine, even if you leverage the [threaded](threaded_build.md) model. Similar to leveraging [Azure Batch](azure_batch.md) or [Azure Container Instance](aci.md), to ensure you can complete your updates in a timely fashion, SQL Build Manager can target Azure Container Apps to distribute you build across multiple compute nodes and pods - each leveraging their own set of concurrent tasks. You can control the level of concurrency to maximize throughput while not overloading your SQL Servers (see [details on concurrency management](concurrency_options.md))

In this implementation, you will need a Container App Environment ant the database targeting and logging leverage [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/service-bus/) and [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/event-hubs) respectively. To leverage Container Apps, you will need an [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/) with several Azure resources deployed.

## Getting Started

### Container Image

The default container image can be found on Docker Hub at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/blueskydevus/sqlbuildmanager/general, or you could build your own from source using the following command from the `/src/` folder

``` bash
docker build -f Dockerfile .. -t sqlbuildmanager:latest
```

### Environment Setup

While the Container App execution process will create the app for you, you will need a Container App Environment to deploy the app into. It also leverages [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/service-bus/), [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/event-hubs) and [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/). You can create your own resources either through the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), [az cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) or [Azure PowerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/). The only special configuration is with Azure Service Bus which requires a Topic named `sqlbuildmanager`.

It is recommended that you can create the resources via the included PowerShell [create_azure_resources.ps1](../scripts/templates/create_azure_resources.ps1). This script will create all of the resources you need and an option for 2 SQL servers and 20 databases in elastic pools. It will also create a new folder and pre-configured settings files in a folder `./src/TestConfig`. The settings files are needed for running integration tests but also serve as excellent references for you to create your own settings files.

----

## Example and How To

### 1. Save the common settings to the config files

The recommended way to run an Container App deployment is to first save the settings that you will leverage in a `--settingsfile` with a `--settingsfilekey`

``` bash
sbm containerapp savesettings -settingsfile "<settings file name>" --settingsfilekey "<settings file key name>" --environmentname "<container app env>" --location "<azure location of env>" --image "<container image name>" --imagetag "<image tag>" g "<environment resource group>" -sb "<service bus topic connection string>"  -kv "<Key Vault Name>" --storageaccountname "<storage acct name>" --storageaccountkey "<storage acct key>" -eh "<event hub connection string>" --defaultscripttimeout 500 --subscriptionid "<azure subscription id>" --force 
```

You can automate they collection and saving of secrets with the included PowerShell script:

- [create_containerapp_settingsfile.ps1](../scripts/templates/ContainerApp/create_containerapp_settingsfile.ps1) - saves secrets to Key Vault and creates the settings JSON file for you.

``` PowerShell
# Collects resource keys and creates settings encrypted file
create_containerapp_settingsfile.ps1 -path "<path to save the files>" -resourceGroupName "<resource group with the KV and identity>" -containerAppEnvironmentName "<env name>" -containerRegistryName "<if using Azure Container registry>" -storageAccountName "<Name of storage account>" -eventHubNamespaceName "<Name of event hub namespace>" -serviceBusNamespaceName "<Name of service bus namespace>" -sqlUserName "<SQL user name" -sqlPassword "<SQL Password>" -withContainerRegistry ($true|$false) 
```

### 2. Upload your SBM Package file to your storage account and create customized ARM template

The Container App containers retrieve the build package from Azure storage, this command will create a storage container with the name of the `--jobname` (it will be lower cased and any invalid characters removed) and upload the SBM file to the new container. It will also create a customized ARM template which will be used to deploy the Container App containers in the `deploy` step.

``` bash
sbm containerapp prep --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --tag "<container version tag>" --jobname "<job name>" -P "<sbm package name>"
```

### 3. Queue up the override targets in Service Bus


**IMPORTANT:** If using arguments, the `jobname` value _MUST_ match the value used in the `prep` steps otherwise the messages will not get processed.

``` bash
sbm containerapp enqueue --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --jobname "<job name>" --concurrencytype "<concurrency type>" --override "<override file name>"
```

### 4. Deploy Container and Monitor progress

Next is to deploy the Container App to create the containers. By default, once the deployment is complete, it will start monitoring progress against the Service Bus and Event Hub. You can change this behavior by setting the `--monitor` argument to `false`. The `--override` argument is not required, but it will allow the monitor to track the target database count and stop monitoring when all targets have been processed.

``` bash
sbm containerapp deploy --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --jobname "<job name>" -P "<sbm package name>" --override "<override file name>"  --concurrencytype "<concurrency type>" --concurrency '<int value>' --monitor 
```

if you would rather run an extra step (for whatever reason), you can run a separate `monitor` command:

``` bash
sbm containerapp monitor --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --jobname "<job name>" --concurrencytype "<concurrency type>" --override "<override file name>"
```

 All of the run logs will be transferred from the pods to the storage container specified in the `jobname` argument. When monitoring is complete, it will output a Blob container SAS token that you can use in [Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/features/storage-explorer/) to easily view the logs.

 **IMPORTANT:** After the `sbm containerapp deploy` (with monitoring) or `sbm containerapp monitor` completes, as part of the clean-up, it will remove the Service Bus Topic associated with the build. This will deactivate the running containers.

Commit message:

Version 14.2.2 - *ADDED:* Managed Identity and Key Vault support for Container Apps - *ADDED:* Categorized subcommands in command line help output - *ADDED:* DACPAC as source now supported with Container Apps, Kubernetes and Azure Container Instance - *FIXED:* Removed false error return code in Batch execution when a custom DACPAC is created for a target database at runtime. - *FIXED:* Missing custom container registry settings on ACI deployments - *ADDED:* Added new package management command `sbm unpack` to extract the contents of an SMB file into scripts and SBX control file

docs/containerapp.md, after:

# Leveraging Azure Container Apps for database builds

- [Why use Container Apps?](#why-use-container-apps)
  - [Process Flow](massively_parallel.md#azure-container-instance-process-flow)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Container Image](#container-image)
  - [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
- [Example and How To](#example-and-how-to)

## Why use Container Apps?

If you have a fleet of databases to update, it could take a very long time to run your build on a single machine, even if you leverage the [threaded](threaded_build.md) model. Similar to leveraging [Azure Batch](azure_batch.md) or [Azure Container Instance](aci.md), to ensure you can complete your updates in a timely fashion, SQL Build Manager can target Azure Container Apps to distribute you build across multiple compute nodes and pods - each leveraging their own set of concurrent tasks. You can control the level of concurrency to maximize throughput while not overloading your SQL Servers (see [details on concurrency management](concurrency_options.md))

In this implementation, you will need a Container App Environment ant the database targeting and logging leverage [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/service-bus/) and [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/event-hubs) respectively. To leverage Container Apps, you will need an [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/) with several Azure resources deployed.

## Getting Started

### Container Image

The default container image can be found on Docker Hub at https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/blueskydevus/sqlbuildmanager/general, or you could build your own from source using the following command from the `/src/` folder

``` bash
docker build -f Dockerfile .. -t sqlbuildmanager:latest
```
If you don't have Docker desktop or would rather off load your container builds, you can leverage Azure Container Registry build tasks with the Azure CLI from the `src` directory. This will build your image and save it to the registry:

``` bash
az acr build --image $nameAndTag --registry $azureContainerRegistryName --file Dockerfile .
```
### Environment Setup

While the Container App execution process will create the app for you, you will need a Container App Environment to deploy the app into. It also leverages [Azure Service Bus](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/service-bus/), [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/event-hubs) and [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/storage/blobs/). You can create your own resources either through the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), [az cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) or [Azure PowerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/). The only special configuration is with Azure Service Bus which requires a Topic named `sqlbuildmanager`.

It is recommended that you can create the resources via the included PowerShell [create_azure_resources.ps1](../scripts/templates/create_azure_resources.ps1). This script will create all of the resources you need and an option for 2 SQL servers and 20 databases in elastic pools. It will also create a new folder and pre-configured settings files in a folder `./src/TestConfig`. The settings files are needed for running integration tests but also serve as excellent references for you to create your own settings files.

----

## Example and How To

### 1. Save the common settings to the config files

The recommended way to run an Container App deployment is to first save the settings that you will leverage in a `--settingsfile` with a `--settingsfilekey`

``` bash
sbm containerapp savesettings -settingsfile "<settings file name>" --settingsfilekey "<settings file key name>" --environmentname "<container app env>" --location "<azure location of env>" --image "<container image name>" --imagetag "<image tag>" g "<environment resource group>" -sb "<service bus topic connection string>"  -kv "<Key Vault Name>" --storageaccountname "<storage acct name>" --storageaccountkey "<storage acct key>" -eh "<event hub connection string>" --defaultscripttimeout 500 --subscriptionid "<azure subscription id>" --force 
```

You can automate they collection and saving of secrets with the included PowerShell script:

- [create_containerapp_settingsfile.ps1](../scripts/templates/ContainerApp/create_containerapp_settingsfile.ps1) - saves secrets to Key Vault and creates the settings JSON file for you.

``` PowerShell
# Collects resource keys and creates settings encrypted file
create_containerapp_settingsfile.ps1 -path "<path to save the files>" -resourceGroupName "<resource group with the KV and identity>" -containerAppEnvironmentName "<env name>" -containerRegistryName "<if using Azure Container registry>" -storageAccountName "<Name of storage account>" -eventHubNamespaceName "<Name of event hub namespace>" -serviceBusNamespaceName "<Name of service bus namespace>" -sqlUserName "<SQL user name" -sqlPassword "<SQL Password>" -withContainerRegistry ($true|$false) 
```

### 2. Upload your SBM Package file to your storage account and create customized ARM template

The Container App containers retrieve the build package from Azure storage, this command will create a storage container with the name of the `--jobname` (it will be lower cased and any invalid characters removed) and upload the SBM file to the new container. It will also create a customized ARM template which will be used to deploy the Container App containers in the `deploy` step.

``` bash
sbm containerapp prep --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --tag "<container version tag>" --jobname "<job name>" -P "<sbm package name>"
```

### 3. Queue up the override targets in Service Bus


**IMPORTANT:** If using arguments, the `jobname` value _MUST_ match the value used in the `prep` steps otherwise the messages will not get processed.

``` bash
sbm containerapp enqueue --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --jobname "<job name>" --concurrencytype "<concurrency type>" --override "<override file name>"
```

### 4. Deploy Container and Monitor progress

Next is to deploy the Container App to create the containers. By default, once the deployment is complete, it will start monitoring progress against the Service Bus and Event Hub. You can change this behavior by setting the `--monitor` argument to `false`. The `--override` argument is not required, but it will allow the monitor to track the target database count and stop monitoring when all targets have been processed.

``` bash
sbm containerapp deploy --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --jobname "<job name>" -P "<sbm package name>" --override "<override file name>"  --concurrencytype "<concurrency type>" --concurrency '<int value>' --monitor 
```

if you would rather run an extra step (for whatever reason), you can run a separate `monitor` command:

``` bash
sbm containerapp monitor --settingsfile "<settings file name>" --jobname "<job name>" --concurrencytype "<concurrency type>" --override "<override file name>"
```

 All of the run logs will be transferred from the pods to the storage container specified in the `jobname` argument. When monitoring is complete, it will output a Blob container SAS token that you can use in [Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/features/storage-explorer/) to easily view the logs.

 **IMPORTANT:** After the `sbm containerapp deploy` (with monitoring) or `sbm containerapp monitor` completes, as part of the clean-up, it will remove the Service Bus Topic associated with the build. This will deactivate the running containers.
