docs/setup_azure_environment.md, before:

# Setting up a test Azure Environment

## Create Test Target databases

To test against Azure databases, you will need some in Azure! The following PowerShell will:

- Create an Azure SQL Server
- Create a SQL Azure Elastic Pool for cost effective use of the databases
- Provision "X" number of databases for that pool. ("x" is defined by the optional `TestDatabaseCount` parameter)
- Build the solution, create a publish target for the `sbm.csproj` file, create a zip package for uploading to the Azure batch account
- Create an Azure Batch account, with the latest build of the sbm.exe CLI uploaded and installed

It is important to note that you can re-run this script at any time to ensure your environment is set up properly. It will not impact running resources if run multiple times. 

## Steps

1. In a PowerShell window, navigate to the `docs/templates` folder
2. Run the `Login-AzAccount` command to connect to your Azure account
3. Run the `Create_AzureTestEnvironment.ps1` file. You will be prompted for parameters:

    - `ResourceGroupName` - Azure resource group to create and put the resources into
    - `Location` - the Azure region to deploy the resources
    - `SqlServerName` - the name of the Azure SQL PaaS server to create
    - `ElasticPoolName` - the name of the elastic pool to put your databases in
    - `DatabaseNameRoot` - the prefix for you Azure SQL databases. This will be appended with sequence numbers (001, 002, etc.)
    - `Batchprefix` - the prefix for the Azure batch components. Must be 6 or less characters, all lowercase. 
    - `SqlServerUserName` - the SQL Admin name to use when creating the SQL server
    - `SqlServerPassword` - the SQL Admin password to use. Upon re-running the script, it will reset the Admin password to this value
    - `TestDatabaseCount` - an optional parameter. The default is 10

Once the script is done running, it will save two files to the `src\TestConfig` folder:

1. `databasetargets.cfg` - a pre-configured database listing file for use in a batch or threaded execution targeting the SQL Azure databases just created
2. `settingsfile.json` - a batch settings file that contains all of the SQL, Batch and Storage endpoints and connection keys for use in testing

**These files will be used by the tests located in the `SqlBuildManager.Console.ExternalTest` project, and can also be leveraged for any manual testing you need to perform**


# Notes on Unit Testing

**NOTE: There are currently some concurrency issues with the unit tests. You may get some failures in a full run that will then succeed after running aain, selecting only the failed tests** 

There are two types of Unit Tests included in the solution. Those that are dependent on a local SQLEXPRESS database (~.Dependent.UnitTest.csproj) and those that aren't (~UnitTest.csproj). If you want to be able to run the database dependent tests, you will need to install SQL Express as per the next section

## SQL Express

In order to get some of the unit tests to succeed, you need to have a local install of SQLExpress. You can find the installer from here [https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-editions-express] (https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-editions-express). You should be able to leverage the basic install.

## sqlpackage.exe

`sqlpackage` is needed for the use of the DACPAC features of the tool. It should already be available in the `Microsoft_SqlDB_DAC` subfolder (Windows) or the `microsoft-sqlpackage-linux` subfolder (Linux) where you are running your tests. If not, you can install or update the package from here [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/tools/sqlpackage-download](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/tools/sqlpackage-download).

The unit tests should find the executable but if not, you may need to add the path to `\SqlBuildManager\SqlSync.SqlBuild\DacPacHelper.cs` in the getter for `sqlPackageExe`.

-----

# Visual Studio Installer Project
For Visual Studio 2015 and beyond, you will need to install an extension to load the installer project (.vdproj)

### Visual Studio 2015
https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/f1cc3f3e-c300-40a7-8797-c509fb8933b9

### Visual Studio 2017 and 2019
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioClient.MicrosoftVisualStudio2017InstallerProjects

_If you are having trouble with the installer project loading try disable extension "Microsoft Visual Studio Installer Projects", reenable, then reload the projects.

Commit message:

Queue (#100)
* **ADDED:** New option to leverage Azure Service Bus Topic as a database target source. See the [Azure Batch](https://github.com/mmckechney/SqlBuildManager/blob/master/docs/azure_batch.md) and [Override Options](https://github.com/mmckechney/SqlBuildManager/blob/master/docs/override_options.md#service-bus-topic) docs for more detail
* **ADDED:** New command option `--settingsfilekey`, a key for the encryption of sensitive information in the settings file. If provided when saving the settings file, it of course must also be provided when using the settings file. This version moved away from a static (and not really secure) encryption key used prior. The argument value can be either the key string or a file path to a key file. The key may also be 'silently' provided by setting a `sbm-settingsfilekey` Environment variable. If not provided a machine value will be used.

docs/setup_azure_environment.md, after:

# Development and Testing


- [Setting up a test Azure Environment](#setting-up-a-test-azure-environment)
- [Notes on Unit Testing](#notes-on-unit-testing)
- [SQL Express for local testing](#sql-express)
- [Visual Studio Installer Project](#Visual-studio-installer-project)

----

## Setting up a test Azure Environment

### Create Test Target databases

To test against Azure databases, you will need some in Azure! The following PowerShell will:

- Create an Azure SQL Server
- Create a SQL Azure Elastic Pool for cost effective use of the databases
- Provision "X" number of databases for that pool. ("x" is defined by the optional `TestDatabaseCount` parameter)
- Build the solution, create a publish target for the `sbm.csproj` file, create a zip package for uploading to the Azure batch account
- Create an Azure Batch account, with the latest build of the sbm.exe CLI uploaded and installed

It is important to note that you can re-run this script at any time to ensure your environment is set up properly. It will not impact running resources if run multiple times. 

### Steps

0. _Prerequisite_: Make sure you have the [Azure PowerShell Modules installed](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-az-ps)
1. In a PowerShell window, navigate to the `docs/templates` folder
2. Run the `Connect-AzAccount` command to connect to your Azure account
3. Run the `Create_AzureTestEnvironment.ps1` file. You will be prompted for parameters:
    - `ResourceGroupName` - Azure resource group to create and put the resources into
    - `Location` - the Azure region to deploy the resources
    - `SqlServerName` - the name of the Azure SQL PaaS server to create
    - `ElasticPoolName` - the name of the elastic pool to put your databases in
    - `DatabaseNameRoot` - the prefix for you Azure SQL databases. This will be appended with sequence numbers (001, 002, etc.)
    - `Batchprefix` - the prefix for the Azure batch components. Must be 6 or less characters, all lowercase. 
    - `SqlServerUserName` - the SQL Admin name to use when creating the SQL server
    - `SqlServerPassword` - the SQL Admin password to use. Upon re-running the script, it will reset the Admin password to this value
    - `TestDatabaseCount` - an optional parameter. The default is 10

Once the script is done running, it will save two files to the `src\TestConfig` folder:

1. `databasetargets.cfg` - a pre-configured database listing file for use in a batch or threaded execution targeting the SQL Azure databases just created
2. `settingsfile-windows.json` and `settingsfile-linux.json` - batch settings files that contains all of the SQL, Batch, Storage and Service Bus endpoints and connection keys for use in testing
3. `settingsfilekey.txt` - a text file containing the encryption key for the settings file

**These files will be used by the tests located in the `SqlBuildManager.Console.ExternalTest` project, and can also be leveraged for any manual testing you need to perform**

## Notes on Unit Testing

**NOTE: There are currently some concurrency issues with the unit tests. You may get some failures in a full run that will then succeed after running aain, selecting only the failed tests** 

There are two types of Unit Tests included in the solution. Those that are dependent on a local SQLEXPRESS database (~.Dependent.UnitTest.csproj) and those that aren't (~UnitTest.csproj). If you want to be able to run the database dependent tests, you will need to install SQL Express as per the next section

## SQL Express

In order to get some of the unit tests to succeed, you need to have a local install of SQLExpress. You can find the installer from here [https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-editions-express] (https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sql-server/sql-server-editions-express). You should be able to leverage the basic install.


# Visual Studio Installer Project
For Visual Studio 2015 and beyond, you will need to install an extension to load the installer project (.vdproj)

### Visual Studio 2015
https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/f1cc3f3e-c300-40a7-8797-c509fb8933b9

### Visual Studio 2017 and 2019
https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=VisualStudioClient.MicrosoftVisualStudio2017InstallerProjects

_If you are having trouble with the installer project loading try disable extension "Microsoft Visual Studio Installer Projects", reenable, then reload the projects.
