docs/threaded_build.md, before:

# Threaded Build Execution

If you have a handful of databases, you can run them in parallel with a threaded build (multiple update threads running from a single machine). You can control the concurrency of the tasks - refer to the [concurrency options](concurrency_options.md) for full details.

To manage the database targets, you will need an override target file. The details of the contents of this file can be found [here](override_options.md)

Sample command:

``` bash
sbm threaded run
    --packagename "mypackage.sbm" ^
    --username "dbusername" ^
    --password "dbpassword" ^
    --override "targetdatabases.cfg" ^
```

When you execute an `sbm threaded run` build, in addition to the console output, it will create a number of log files. They will be created in the location of the `--rootloggingpath` setting or in the current directory if `--rootloggingpath` is not provided. For details on the log files and their contents, please see [Log Files Details for Threaded and Batch execution](threaded_and_batch_logs.md)

Commit message:

Version 14.0.0 (#149)
### Version 14.0.0

- **NEW:** You can now use Kubernetes as a compute platform for leveraging database builds with the new `sbm k8s` commands. See the [Kubernetes documentation](kubernetes.md) for background, information and how-to examples
- **NEW:** You can now use Azure Container Instance as a compute platform for leveraging database builds with the new `sbm aci` commands. See the [ACI documentation](aci.md) for background, information and how-to examples
- *ADDED:* New Azure Key Vault integration -- secrets can now be stored in Key Vault and no longer need to be stored in the settings file or passed via command line. See the [documentation here](massively_parallel.md)
- **IMPORTANT:** Batch node pools are now created with assigned Managed Identities. Because of this, the workstation running `sbm` needs to have a valid Azure authentication token. This can be done via Azure CLI `az login`, Azure PowerShell `Connect-AzAccount`, or if running from an automation box, ensure that the machine itself has a Managed Identity that has permissions to create Azure Batch resources. 
- *UPDATED:* Automation scripts `/scripts/templates` have been updated to simplify the creation of Azure resources, runtime, secrets file and pushing secrets to Key Vault
- *UPDATED:* Batch and Kubernetes now have Managed Identity assigned to allow seamless access to Key Vault

docs/threaded_build.md, after:

# Threaded Build Execution

If you have a handful of databases, you can run them in parallel with a threaded build (multiple update threads running from a single machine). You can control the concurrency of the tasks - refer to the [concurrency options](concurrency_options.md) for full details.

To manage the database targets, you will need an override target file. You can learn more about the structure and contents of the override file [here](override_options.md).

Sample command:

``` bash
sbm threaded run
    --packagename "mypackage.sbm" ^
    --username "dbusername" ^
    --password "dbpassword" ^
    --override "targetdatabases.cfg" ^
```

When you execute an `sbm threaded run` build, in addition to the console output, it will create a number of log files. They will be created in the location of the `--rootloggingpath` setting or in the current directory if `--rootloggingpath` is not provided. For details on the log files and their contents, please see [Log Files Details for Threaded, Batch and Kubernetes execution](threaded_and_batch_logs.md)
